{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs40 PREDICTION AND FORCASTING SALES\par
\b\f1\fs28 Abstract :\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f2\fs20 Machine Learning (ML) is an effective way for\par
sales forecasting. Technological innovation helping to make\par
huge changes to the organization\rquote s sales rate for securing\par
business profitability. Implementation of Jupiter and Python\par
are two innovative models for introducing different algorithms\par
for secured business profitability. Uses of different models,\par
such as GARCH, SARIMA, SARIMAX helped to promote business\par
profitability for the management of the sales rate. Secondary\par
data collection method will be used to complete the ML system.\par
Findings and analysis will be mentioned to reach the\par
conclusion. Recommended strategies such as algorithm tuning,\par
feature selection and treating outliers are important for\par
managing sales rate. Identification of the sales fart is\par
important for secured business profitability .\par
\b0  \b\f1\fs28 Innovation :\par
\f2\fs20 1 :Intelligent Sales Prediction using Machine Learning Techniques\par
 The analysis of comprehensible predictive models to improve future sales are carried out in this review paper. In this paper,\par
the techniques that they use for sales data and sales forecast were briefly analyzed. The high accuracy is gives by Gradient\par
Boosting algorithm so it is considered as the best fit model.\par
2: Forecasting the Retail Sales of China\rquote s Catering Industry\par
 Machine learning and deep learning are the techniques used in this paper for analyzing the train data and gate useful\par
information from the patterns and trends. Neural network is the best algorithm for predict sales is gives by these paper.\par
3: An Intelligent Model for Predicting the Sales of a Product\par
 The main aim of this paper is to detect a dimension for the prediction of the Big Mart Company. It is comes out by using\par
the sales data of last years. In these paper they uses many algorithm as Random forest, Xgboost, K-N and linear regression\par
were among them Random Forest proves best.\par
4: Sales Prediction using Machine Learning Algorithms.\par
 Here the train data such as sales, weather, and stock amount are carried out. These paper uses Gradient boost, Random and\par
Extremely Randomized Trees over here. Among them Random Forest is considered to be effective after uses of several parameters.\par
5: Comparison of Different Machine Learning Algorithms for Multiple Regression on Black Friday Sales Data\par
 In these paper author says that a company like Big Mart, prediction acts as a major part in the sales of the products. Over\par
here, they uses Xgboost is provided them very good result and are effective.\par
\f1\fs28 Importance :\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f2\fs20\par
\b  In order to provide strong and sustainable strategies for sales prediction, gathering proper information about this system is\par
one of the most useful objectives for the company management techniques. Sales forecasting is a method that directly\par
supports estimating the future sales through an efficient manner by providing structure goals and better outcome.\par
1 Concept of Data Management for Sales Prediction\par
 In order to provide strong and sustainable strategies for sales prediction, gathering proper information about this system is\par
one of the most useful objectives for the company management techniques. Sales forecasting is a method that directly\par
supports estimating the future sales through an efficient manner by providing structure goals and better outcome.\par
1 Concept of Data Management for Sales Prediction\par
 In order to provide strong and sustainable strategies for sales prediction, gathering proper information about this system is\par
one of the most useful objectives for the company management techniques. Sales forecasting is a method that directly\par
supports estimating the future sales through an efficient manner by providing structure goals and better outcome.\par
\f1\fs28 Design :\par
\f2\fs20 Without details from your past sales, you won\rquote t have anything to base your predictions on. If you don\rquote t have past sales data, you can begin tracking sales now to create a sales forecast in the future. The data you\rquote ll need to track includes:\par
Number of units sold per month\par
Revenue of each product by month\par
Number of units returned or canceled (so you can get an accurate sales calculation)\par
Other items you can track to make your predictions more accurate include:\par
Growth percentage\par
Number of sales representatives\par
Average sales cycle length\par
There are different ways to use these data points when forecasting sales. If you want to calculate your sales run rate, which is your projected revenue for the next year, use your revenue from the past month and multiply it by 12. Then, adjust this number based on other relevant data points, like seasonality.\par
Before you perform the calculations in your sales forecast template, you need to decide what you\rquote re measuring. \par
For example, you can investigate future trends for a long-standing product to decide whether it\rquote s worth continuing, or you can predict future sales for a new product. \par
You can decide to make projections for as little as six months or as much as five years in the future. The complexity of your sales forecast is up to you.\par
Set your product\rquote s metrics, whether they be units, hours, memberships, or something else. That way, you can calculate revenue on a price per unit basis.\par
Your sales cycle\emdash also called a sales funnel\emdash is how long it takes for you to make the average sale from beginning to end. Sales cycles are often monthly, quarterly, or yearly. Depending on the product you\rquote re selling, your sales cycle may be unique. Steps in the sales cycle typically include:\par
Lead generation\par
Lead qualification\par
Initial contact\par
Making an offer\par
Negotiation\par
Closing the deal\par
There are two basic forecasting methods you can use when sales forecasting. The top-down method starts with the total size of the market and works down, while the bottom-up method starts with your business and expands out.\par
Top-down method: To use the top-down method, start with the total size of the market\emdash or total addressable market (TAM). Then, estimate how much of the market you think your business can capture. For example, if you\rquote re in a large, over-saturated market, you may only capture 3% of the TAM. If the total addressable market is $1 billion, your projected annual sales would be $30 million. \par
Bottom-up method: With the bottom-up method, you\rquote ll estimate the total units your company will sell in a sales cycle, then multiply that number by your average cost per unit. You can expand out by adding other variables, like the number of sales reps, department expenses, or website views. The bottom-up forecasting method uses company data to project more specific results. \par
You\rquote ll need to choose one method to fill in your sales forecast template, but you can also try both methods to compare results.\par
Free sales pipeline template\par
You\rquote ve already learned a basic way to calculate revenue using the top-down method. Below, you\rquote ll see another way to estimate your projected sales revenue on an annual scale.\par
Divide your sales revenue for the year so far by the number of months so far to calculate your average monthly sales rate.\par
Multiply your average monthly sales rate by the number of months left in the year to calculate your projected sales revenue for the rest of the year.\par
Add your total sales revenue so far to your projected sales revenue for the rest of the year to calculate your annual sales forecast.\par
A more generalized way to estimate your future sales revenue for the year is to multiply your total sales revenue from the previous year.\par
A sales forecast predicts future revenue by making assumptions about your growth rate based on past success. But your past success is only one component of your growth rate. There are external factors outside of your control that can affect sales growth\emdash and you should consider them if you want to make accurate projections. \par
Some external factors you can adjust your calculations around include:\par
Inflation rate: Inflation is how much prices increase over a specific time period, and it usually fluctuates based on a country\rquote s overall economic state. You can take your annual sales forecast and factor in inflation rate to ensure you\rquote re not projecting a higher or lower number of sales than the economy will permit.\par
The competition: Is your market becoming more competitive as time goes on? For example, are you selling software during a tech boom? If so, assess whether your market share will shrink because of rising competition in the coming year(s).\par
Market changes: The market can shift as people change their behavior. Your audience may spend an average of six hours per day on their phones in one year. In the next year, mental health awareness may cause phone usage to drop. These changes are hard to predict, so you must stay on top of market news.\par
Industry changes: Industry changes happen when new products and technologies come on the market and make other products obsolete. One instance of this is the invention of AI technology.\par
Legislation: Although not as common, changes in legislation can affect the way companies sell their products. For example, vaping was a multi-million dollar industry until laws banned the sale of vape products to people under the age of 21. \par
Seasonality: Many industries experience seasonality based on how human behavior and human needs change with the seasons. For example, people spend more time inside during the winter, so they may be on their computers more. Retail stores may also experience a jump in sales around Christmas time.\par
\par
\par
}
 